README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/thraxil/django-expvar.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/thraxil/django-expvar)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/thraxil/django-expvar/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/thraxil/django-expvar?branch=master)

django-expvar
==============

[expvar](https://golang.org/pkg/expvar/) compatible endpoint for django

`pip install django-expvar`, add `expvar` to `INSTALLED_APPS` and add
to your `urls.py`:

```
from expvar.views import ExpVarView

...

    url('^debug/vars$', ExpVarView.as_view(), name='expvar'),
...
```

Then, accessing `/debug/vars` on your app will return a JSON dict with
the exposed variables, which you can use for monitoring, debugging,
etc.

By default, `expvar` reports commandline arguments and some basic
memory stats, just like the Go package. (currently, the particular
memory stats don't match up with what Go reports. That's being worked
on so tools like [expvarmon](https://github.com/divan/expvarmon) can
be used out of the box, but the Python and Go runtimes are not exactly
identical...)

You can also easily expose other variables through the expvar
endpoint. In your django app, just add a `vars.py` file with some
classes that subclass `expvar.ExpVar` like so:

```
import expvar


class Example(expvar.ExpVar):
    name = 'example'

    def value(self):
        return 42
```

In your django settings, you can optionally specify a `EXPVAR_SKIP`
variable with a list of apps to ignore (ie, any `vars.py` files in
those apps will be ignored).

## plugins:

* [django-expvar-cmdline](https://github.com/thraxil/django-expvar-cmdline) -
  reports the commandline data for the process (useful for
  compatability with expvarmon and similar, but may pose a security
  risk if you pass secrets on the commandline)

Commit message:

split resource expvar into its own package

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/thraxil/django-expvar.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/thraxil/django-expvar)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/thraxil/django-expvar/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/thraxil/django-expvar?branch=master)

django-expvar
==============

[expvar](https://golang.org/pkg/expvar/) compatible endpoint for django

`pip install django-expvar`, add `expvar` to `INSTALLED_APPS` and add
to your `urls.py`:

```
from expvar.views import ExpVarView

...

    url('^debug/vars$', ExpVarView.as_view(), name='expvar'),
...
```

Then, accessing `/debug/vars` on your app will return a JSON dict with
the exposed variables, which you can use for monitoring, debugging,
etc.

You can easily expose variables through the expvar endpoint. In your
django app, just add a `vars.py` file with some classes that subclass
`expvar.ExpVar` like so:

```
import expvar


class Example(expvar.ExpVar):
    name = 'example'

    def value(self):
        return 42
```

In your django settings, you can optionally specify a `EXPVAR_SKIP`
variable with a list of apps to ignore (ie, any `vars.py` files in
those apps will be ignored).

If multiple variables declare the same `name`, two different things
can happen:

* if they return scalar values, it's a collision and only one of them
  will get reported. This is probably not what you intended, so try to
  stick to unique names
* if they return dicts as their value, variables with the same name
  will have their values merged.

## plugins:

By default, `expvar` will only expose the variables that you set up.

There are a few additional packages available though that act as
plugins to provide generic data on commandline arguments, process
data, etc. Generally, once you have `expvar` installed, you can pip
install them and add them to `INSTALLED_APPS` and that's enough to use
them.

* [django-expvar-cmdline](https://github.com/thraxil/django-expvar-cmdline) -
  reports the commandline data for the process (useful for
  compatability with expvarmon and similar, but may pose a security
  risk if you pass secrets on the commandline)
* [django-expvar-resource](https://github.com/thraxil/django-expvar-resource) -
  reports various info on resource usage (memory, interrupts, etc) via
  a library in the Python's standard lib.
